{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 CHAPTER -3\par
INTRODUCTION\par
3.1 PROJECT IDEA\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Pose Estimation for Suspicious Activity Detection using Deep Learning. This project can be used for surveillance in public places. Through the visual surveillance,\par
human activities can be monitored in sensitive and public areas such as bus stations, railway\par
stations, airports, banks, shopping malls, school and colleges, parking lots, roads, etc. to\par
prevent terrorism, theft, accidents and illegal parking, vandalism, fighting, chain snatching,\par
crime and other suspicious activities.\par
\par
3.2 MOTIVATION OF THE PROJECT\par
\par
Human pose estimation is one of the key problems in computer vision that has been studied\par
for more than 15 years. It is important because of the sheer number of applications which can\par
benefit from pose estimation. For example, human pose estimation is used in applications\par
including video surveillance, animal tracking and behavior understanding, sign language\par
detection, advanced human-computer interaction, and marker less motion capturing.\par
Low cost depth sensors have limitations like limited to indoor use, and their low resolution and noisy depth information make it difficult to estimate human poses from depth\par
images. Hence, we plan to use neural networks to overcome these problems.\par
Suspicious human activity recognition from surveillance video is an active research area\par
of image processing and computer vision. Through the visual surveillance, human activities\par
can be monitored in sensitive and public areas such as bus stations, railway stations, airports,\par
banks, shopping malls, school and colleges, parking lots, roads, etc. to prevent terrorism,\par
theft, accidents and illegal parking, vandalism, fighting, chain snatching, crime and other\par
suspicious activities. It is very difficult to watch public places continuously, therefore an\par
intelligent video surveillance is required that can mononitor the human activities in real-time and categorize them as usual and unusual activities; and can generate an alert. Mostly, of the research being carried out is on images and not videos.\par
\par
\par
3.3 LITERATURE SURVEY\par
\par
Paper Title : A Review of Human Pose Estimation from Single Image\par
Year : 2018 IEEE\par
Authors\rquote  names : Naimat Ullah Khan, Wanggen Wan\par
Description :\par
This review is focused on the most significant contributions in Human Pose Estimation\par
methods from a single two-dimensional image. They start their study with the traditional\par
pictorial structure, go through a discussion of the use of Deep Neural Networks that improved\par
the human pose estimation significantly and then the most recent, more famous approach\par
namely Stacked Hourglass. Starting from the first practical models for estimating human\par
pose, they provide a comprehensive study of some of the most famous deep learning methods\par
in order to provide a concise analytical review of these most influential methods.\par
\par
Paper Title : Human Pose Estimation using Deep Structure Guided Learning\par
\par
Year : 2017 IEEE\par
Authors\rquote  names : Baole Ai, Yu Zhou, Yao Yu, Sidan Du Nanjing University\par
Description :\par
This paper presents an approach to incorporate structure knowledge into CNNs for articulated human pose estimation from a single still image. Recent research on pose estimation\par
adopt CNNs as base blocks to combine with other graphical models. Different from existing\par
methods using features from CNNs to model the tree structure, they directly use the structure pose prior to guide the learning of CNN. First, they introduce a deep CNN with effective\par
receptive fields which capture the holistic context of the whole image. Second, limb loss is\par
used as intermediate supervision of CNN to learn the correlations of joints. Both parts and\par
joints features are extract the middle of neural network and then are used to guide the following network learning.\par
\par
Paper Title : Computer Vision Approaches based on Deep Learning and Neural\par
Networks\par
Year : 2017 IEEE\par
Authors\rquote  names : Eralda Nishani, Betim C\'b8 ic\'b8o\par
Description :\par
This paper performs a systematic mapping study, in order to investigate existing research\par
about implementations of computer vision approaches based on deep learning algorithms\par
and CNNs. They selected a total of 119 papers, which were classified according to field\par
of interest, network type, learning paradigm, research and contribution type. They choose\par
human pose estimation in video frames as a possible computer vision task to explore in our\par
research. After careful studying they propose three different research direction related to:\par
improving existing CNN implementations, using Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) for\par
human pose estimation and finally relying on unsupervised learning paradigm to train NNs.\par
\par
\par
Paper Title : SHPD: Surveillance Human Pose Dataset And Performance Evaluation For Coarse-Grained Pose Estimation\par
Year : 2018 IEEE\par
Authors\rquote  names : Qiuhui Chen, Chongyang Zhang, Weiwei Liu, and Dan Wang\par
Description :\par
In this paper, a novel Surveillance Human Pose Dataset (SHPD) is introduced. Unlike the\par
existing fine-grained parts or key-points based human pose datasets, SHPD is built for two\par
aims: 1) constructing a more specialized human pose benchmark for surveillance tasks, and\par
2) focusing on coarse-grained global-pose estimation for small scale human objects, which\par
are the most common targets in practical outdoor surveillance applications. The collected\par
images in SHPD are all from on-using surveillance cameras and capture people from a wide\par
and balanced range of outdoor scenarios. A wide variety of surveillance human global poses\par
and their corresponding rich attributes are also provided. Based on SHPD, performance\par
evaluation of global-pose estimation using a few baseline deep-learning networks indicates\par
that, there are ample room for improvement of the recognition accuracy.\par
\par
\par
\par
CHAPTER 4\par
PROBLEM DEFINITION AND SCOPE\par
\par
4.1 PROBLEM STATEMENT\par
\par
Pose Estimation for Suspicious Activity Detection using Deep Learning. Pose estimation is predicting the body part or joint locations of a person from an image or a video. This project will entail detecting suspicious human poses from real-time CCTV\par
footage using neural networks.\par
\par
4.1.1 Goals and Objectives\par
\par
We plan to build an application for detection of suspicious poses of people in public places in\par
real time. Our application can be used in surveillance at places like malls, airports, railway\par
stations, etc. where there is a risk of robbery or a shooting attack. We will be using deep\par
learning and neural networks to train our system. This model will then be deployed as a\par
mobile and desktop app which will take real time CCTV footage as input and send an alert\par
on the administrator\rquote s device if some suspicious pose is found.Through the visual surveillance,human activities can be monitored in sensitive and public areas such as bus stations, railway stations, airports, banks, shopping malls, school and colleges, parking lots, roads, etc. to prevent terrorism, theft, accidents and illegal parking, vandalism, fighting, chain snatching,crime and other suspicious activities. Since it is very difficult to watch public places continuously, therefore an intelligent video surveillance is required that can monitor the human activities in real-time and categorize them as usual and unusual activities; and can generate an alert.\par
\par
4.2 MAJOR CONSTRAINTS\par
\par
Real time CCTV footage data is available,\f1 Database is given required permissions\f0\lang1033 ,\f1\lang9 GPU speed\f0\lang1033 ,Generate suspiciousness score,The accuracy with which suspicious poses will be detected from the footage will depend on the amount of data the model is trained on.\par
\par
\par
4.4 OUTCOME\par
\par
Through the visual surveillance, human activities can be monitored in sensitive and public areas such as bus stations, railway stations, airports, banks, shopping malls, school and colleges, parking lots, roads, etc. to prevent terrorism, theft, accidents and illegal parking, vandalism, fighting, chain snatching, crime and other suspicious activities. Since it is very difficult to watch public places continuously, therefore an intelligent video surveillance will monitor the human activities in real-time and categorize them as usual and unusual activities; and will generate an alert.\par
\par
4.5 APPLICATIONS\par
\par
1. Surveillance at public places for detecting poses related to shooting, knife attacks.\par
2. Surveillance at stores for detecting suspicious poses related to shoplifting.\par
\par
4.6 HARDWARE RESOURCES REQUIRED\par
\par
1. GPU \f1\endash  Nvidia Titan RTX\par
2. CPU \endash  2.2GHz\par
3. RAM \endash  8GB and above.\par
4. Smartphone with Android 8 and above.\par
5. CCTV camera to\f0   capture real-time footage.\par
\par
\par
4.7 SOFTWARE RESOURCES REQUIRED\par
\par
1. Language : Python\par
2. IDE : PyCharm\par
3. Operating System : Windows.\par
4. Operating System for mobile app : Android.\par
\par
}
 